A mildly-redacted instant message exchange I had with Bob Stouffer:

Me:

The correct name for user feedback from production that needs to be triaged is
a "complaint". I cannot believe how long it took me to figure that out. "Issue"
is such a tarpit of a name and idea.

Triage is therefore the process of turning complaints into one of:

- a duplicate of a canonical complaint
- a bug report (does not work as specified)
- a change request (specified behavior appears insufficient for user's self-reported needs)
- a request for behavior clarification (specification is not clear and behavior is not self-evidently correct to user)

then annotating the complaint with all needed information:

- original report
- reproduction steps
- problem severity for user
- problem frequency [deriveable from # of duplicate reports])
- contact information for plaintiff [when feasible]

and finally making sure the development team for the product updates its priorities as needed based on the complaint's resolution.

Sat 12:18am

I also realized that in a sane VCS, meant for human consumption, "merge
requests" and "pull requests" are called "suggestions".

Sat 12:20am

That led to the realization that for projects that keep specs and bugs in the
codebase and also have a canonicsl VCS node with a Web UI that supports editing
files, the official bug report and feature request interfaces are just using
that editor to create new files (i.e. "suggestions" above).

The code review tools are then used for discussing the new suggestions.
Suggestions that get made several times but which have been rejected for good
reasons wind up in the project in the "rejected features" doc.

 The end users and business people never have to know about the fact that this
is all very programmer-friendly.

Sat 12:25am

Side bonus: this also shows how mortals can contribute to the specs without
learning version control or text editing, and how a non-programmer can own the
specifications when appropriate, while still having them live in the codebase.

Sat 5:48pm

Does that all make sense?

If so, is it just so obvious that no one else needed to say it?

Bob:
Sat 6:07pm

I think the wording insights would prove problematic if user-facing. And it's
not a problem I have enough experience with to know whether it would be an
improvement.

Me:

Sun 8:19am

Ah, I see your point indeed.

I was pondering how hard it would be to get traction for "complaint" even
internally at most American companies, since they have such a deeply ingrained
culture of avoiding any truth that is remotely unpleasant.

I hadn't thought at all about how it could look to an outsider.

Guess I should look up complaint in the thesaurus.

Sun 8:21am

Well, that was no help.

Sun 8:27am

I suppose you could argue that triage is about handling all user feedback, and
step 1 is separating complaints and thank yous.

I left that unsaid because it seems like a no-op.

I guess, strictly speaking, not all actionable feedback is actually a
complaint. There are suggestions and questions, too.

Maybe actionable feedback should be filed as one of those three categories?

Though that collides with my lovely oversimplified "suggestions" label for
version control... ah well.
